hey everybody welcome back to northern
lane plays the binding of issac
afterbirth plus we've been knocking
these challenges out at a ridiculous
pace still got challenge 11 challenge 19
I don't even know what they are
we're due for a well we only have two
left on the list right now which is
awesome we have the two big ones right
now own a and streak which I started by
hurting myself for some idiotic reason
and also of course ultra hard which is
extremely challenging in and of itself
Oh nein streak should not be that bad
and I don't say that just to you know
get myself going here but really we beat
Oh nein streak or at least had a run
capable of beating onand streak I just
ruined it by being an idiot on the like
six runs ago or there's probably like
close to a month ago now that I think
about it by the time this goes up but
yeah and and actually the onand streak
video is one that I almost feel the need
to apologize for everybody takes the
apology as a sign of weakness but I I
take it as a sign of of pride you know I
think I did wrong by the game and I want
to own up to that
apparently oh that was bad but we're
okay apparently it's a well known thing
or at least relatively well known that
in owning streak you never want to take
anything that gives you multiple shots I
was operating under the principle that
if any of your shots hit you would not
take damage whereas the way that it
actually works is if any of your shots
miss you will take damage so obviously
we ended up taking a pro Chon that last
attempt here that was decidedly idiotic
more or less I'm drowsy and lemonparty
neither of which are pivotal at the
present moment we did take one hit I
don't really mind not getting a deal
with the devil because I think we
already have an actually like very easy
win here with chocolate milk Jacob's
Ladder I mean I don't think friendly
balls worth too much here over the book
of Belial as is anyway but we we have a
great run all we need to do is of
avoid taking the kinds of items that we
took the last time we did own and streak
that ended up you know costing us a
chance at the crown I think that it's in
our best interest to just stay as as
safe as possible without necessarily
ruining the the Zain of the run but at
the same time like the Zane of the run
is kind of inherent I think so let's see
we've still got like a 50% chance of a
deal I just only want to shoot at that
guy when he's unlikely to move so we get
lucky we get squeezy here tears upgrade
could be dangerous because we don't want
to fire too quickly but this is actually
potentially a really useful deal with
the devil dude nothing grinds my gears
more than a deal with the devil
with three red chests where one or more
the red chest takes you to the deal with
the devil if I could cry would feel like
this okay
we're really like I'm adhering to this
idea I'm attached to the idea is a
better way to describe it of getting all
these challenges done on a second pass
I'm content to fail from time to time I
think failure by the way the reason I'm
not gonna take box of spiders here is
because I don't trust mice I don't trust
myself to take box of spiders because
sometimes when I use the space bar it is
going to shoot the tear that I've stored
and if it shoots it into nothingness
then we obviously are gonna take damage
as a result I think I took damage it's
weird because Jacob's Ladder kind of
confuses it a little bit but I hit a
rock which is not an enemy and then
Jacob's Ladder killed four enemies made
me think that we deserved to not take
damage there but I do think that the
game calculated it appropriately
unfortunately for me but you can see
like this is working out really really
nicely right now and word three minutes
deep we're already on the fourth floor
which is indicative of this being a
pretty strong run especially amazing
when you consider the fact that you know
the only thing we start with on this run
is basically chocolate milk and we're
Judas
so we
have a good foundation I mean it's
better than your average starting Judas
run except for the fact that if you have
less than a hundred percent accuracy
you're gonna end up taking damage one
way or the other right so I think that
we've just sort of accidentally created
a run that's actually kind of incredible
all we need to do is not miss you know
would be like an 11 out of 10 synergy on
this run dead shot in case we needed any
more incentive to to not miss but I
think this high damage Jacob's Ladder is
kind of crushing it for us like without
that we'd be in a much worse position
but with that we're kind of like sitting
pretty here I don't think we there's
there's too much that we can do to mess
this up as long as we don't accidentally
fire a bunch of aberrant shots just kind
of into the ether now of course as I say
that we are starting to lose HP here
there usually comes a little it's almost
like the opposite of if you remember
10th grade English class or somewhere
around there your teacher will give you
kind of be the anatomy of a story starts
with the rising action and then at some
point there's a climax and then it ends
with a day to Maude you know the the
falling action after the climax is
complete we kind of start with things I
wouldn't say at their climax necessarily
but well on the rising action and then
things kind of like day Newmont
in the middle before hopefully kind of
reaching an origin point near the end
I'm just gonna be honest I don't know
what the heck I kind of lost the plot
halfway through there although I almost
walked right into that although it might
be an okay idea to take shoopdawhoop I
almost just want to not mess with it
because I believe we had shoopdawhoop on
an earlier owned and streak attempt and
it was not necessarily I think I'm
throwing the baby out with the bathwater
as I guess the way I want to describe it
I think even if it maybe didn't actually
contribute to us losing that run it was
on the run that we lost and as a result
I'm kind of holding it against it
despite the fact that it might have
nothing to do with that to begin with
really it's more a more elegant way to
describe it as if it ain't broke don't
fix it right that was an extremely lucky
hit there and it is decidedly like not
broke right now and as a result no
fixing is necessary which is very nice
for me because you know red green used
to say if the women don't find you
handsome they should at least find you
handy what happens if you gotta neither
though so we got a speed upgrade a big
tear downgrade there but I don't think
that matters too much with chocolate
milk I've been working on my my
handiness I'm attracted to the idea of
being able to build stuff and this is
gonna sound dorky and because it's like
the dorkiest thing I've ever said to
begin with but it's kind of because I
have a rudimentary please don't hurt me
real programmers but I have like a
rudimentary understanding of software
engineering now and I'm like carpentry
is just software engineering with
real-world materials and I find that
kind of cool you know I used to look at
a spice rack and go I can't conceivably
understand how you would build a spice
rack now I look at it and I go okay
first you got to learn how to use a
hammer and then you got to buy the wood
and then you got to learn oh that was so
dumb much like this tangent then you
just got to learn how to attach two
boards together and all of a sudden you
got all the pieces that you need to kind
of like constructed modularly you know
you build it inch by inch row by row not
all is one discrete unit but I'm not
there yet we're starting with pieces of
Ikea furniture and some of them are
working out okay some of them aren't
this is potentially pretty solid here
and I'll keep you updated as the as the
time approaches it's a very little
incentive to learn carpentry
unfortunately Ori or any kind of Han yes
although I did fish are not fish sorry I
didn't fix our dishwasher via a YouTube
video and I was like I think this
YouTube thing is gonna start to catch on
to be honest with you
I googled like the make and model of our
dishwasher and there was a video of a
dude describing the exact problem that
we have and how to fix it in a way
though I was kind of like this guy's
like a magician giving away his tricks
like if it weren't for the reward for
the video I probably would have called a
plumber
I'm an electrician what you call for a
dishwasher is that a handyman on an
appliance repairman and it's an
antiquated term an appliance repair
person is probably the correct course of
action there but
dude I took way too much damage fighting
the adversary we got a great deal with
the devil chance ie 100 while the angel
chance exists as well I suppose but it's
devil chance toothpicks her up nine
lives I as boring as it probably used to
watch me just ignore all of these items
that could be fun dude I don't think I
can justify taking nine lives on own and
streak and I hope you'll forgive me for
this given that I have done this
challenge in the past so I'm kind of
just trying to coast this one through
here you know normally when I do an
Isaac run I want it to be like airplay
in the movie I want it to be singing I
want it to have you know I'm serious and
don't call me Shirley moments in it
however this one I want to be more like
airplane the method of transportation
which means essentially I want them to
turn off the seatbelt sign as soon as we
reach cruising altitude and never turn
it on again I wanted to smooth this
flight that can conceivably be
guaranteed okay we'll open this that's a
ton of money I really don't think we
need anything else oh that was such a
big whiff there um oh I really don't
think we need anything else except
maintaining a relatively strong sense of
strength here but we might as well buy
stuff from our our shop if it ends up
helping us out here even just buying a
bunch of spirit arts might be the right
call and of course like getting damage
upgrades would still be nice I'm a
little cheesed about that it is our
final floor here so I figured me just
buy whatever we got I said remember that
but I got to be honest it looks like
owned and streak is gonna come through
in the clutch for us I'm pretty
confident we're gonna come away with the
W let's go for the four banger we got
two and that's about as good as we could
have expected and this will be like yet
another successful challenge if we end
up winning
of course which is kind of a truism I
suppose but either way great track
record on what have been supposedly some
pretty difficult challenges I mean we
failed them all the first time the only
one left after this that we have
presently unlocked is ultra hard ultra
hard is a garbage challenge and I'm very
scared of it but confidence is kind of
like at an all-time high here ultra hard
is one of the few it's like ultra hard
and I think maybe speed that we ended up
you should probably you spoke up a while
a little bit more even though it doesn't
seem that important why not one of the
one of the very few that we ended up
taking more than two attempts on now
because you know me you know that if
this is a 1 or a 6
I will reroll my whole run it's not it's
go ahead go ahead is one of the few
items in the game that is almost so good
it's bad it's like a reverse Birdemic
sort of situation I love it I recognize
its objectively great I will go way out
of my way to pick it up especially the
earlier in a run we can get it the
better however I also recognize that
it's probably one of the few items in
the game I could potentially kill myself
with you know kill him with kindness
style the item is so good makes me play
makes me play overly aggressively over
aggressively overly aggressively you
never want to end a sentence with like
Tooley words unless you're chris tucker
in the rush hour movies lee it's not got
to be careful with that impression no
disrespect meant well if there's
disrespect meant it's meant towards
braat braat braat rettner no brett
ratner not to any of the actors the
thespians in the fine film if you will
so seraphim is okay as long as it's
shots don't cause me to take damage and
boss rush is just not worth our time for
anybody involved we could have fought
the angel statue but I mean the central
theme of this run has been more or less
that I'm not going to rock the boat so
you're a little on the silly side if you
think that I'm gonna try to fight an
angel statue here especially any enemy
with mobility if I can avoid fighting it
I'm gonna avoid fighting it I'll even
tell you straight up that I think
Seraphim was not necessarily a 100%
lights out good choice to take because
Seraphim does a decent amount of damage
it could kill enemies that I'm trying to
shoot at and and caused me to miss as a
result of killing the enemy you know I
shoot where the the enemy used to be and
now exists only a corpse or a memory of
what I was meant to be I tried so okay
grab this also fairly tricky situation
here just play it cool
certainly do not need the key the run is
going to continue to get harder this is
not one where we've we found a
circuitous way around it like in the
head trauma challenge for example we
found a basically cheat codes to make
that one work by getting technology in
this one we're still uh you know
beholding to the rules of the game and
the rule of the unique rules of the
challenge to begin with but it actually
ended up working out pretty well there
we should still be fine though I
actually think that if you were to look
at like potential causes of death on
this run my own hubris is actually like
probably number one and that manifests
itself entirely by taking way too many
deals with the devil so as long as we
can keep ego in check here I think we're
in a good spot I don't even want that as
long as we can keep ego in check we
should be good and by the way I don't
need any more spirit hearts I think I'm
good
foolish human either way okay don't go
breaking my heart or chasing waterfalls
for that matter easy money
Seraphin can do the dirty work here HP
from crack Jax and actually vibrant bulb
is good cuz I tend to I mean it's good
in the worst of times but it's
particularly good because I have a
tendency to misuse book of Belial now I
throw myself on the mercy of the court
cuz I am an experienced Isaac player I
looked at Guppies paw and I saw with the
line that I'm sure you guys saw as well
why not take Guppies paw and just like
go buckwild with it get 12 spirit hearts
all of a sudden we've got permanent
polaroid invincibility which does not
protect you from taking damage due to
the onand street condition as we saw
last time if I remember correctly but
why not just take that and I think it
might allow you to ball out with
illuminated bulb as well the reason is
is simple but also a little lame if it
ain't broke don't fix it on these
challenges and even more so on ultra
hard to be honest with you but on these
challenges if we're looking pretty I'm
not gonna adjust course I don't want to
shoot cuz you're gonna kill this thing
there's a I think a case to be made that
that is idiotic and I'm never gonna take
items that improve me if I'm always
worried about maintaining the status quo
however dude status quo sounds like what
George Lucas would name a Gungan in Star
Wars Episode one the Phantom Menace but
regardless
the spirit heart regardless this is not
new NL this is not oh what happened to
Lu used to be zany now you're not zany
this is me you know showing up to court
wearing a suit you know it's appropriate
given the situation that doesn't mean
I'm not a jeans and hoodie guy at home
just means that I'm showing decorum to
this situation as is warranted this
challenge show that was a dumb idea
apparently this challenge has been a bit
a bit of a pain in the butt so what I've
chosen to do is handle it with a certain
level of maturity and then we can get
back to the sane once we're done with
the challenges grab that still got good
HP I will take sin robes I think it's
just a straight-up
HP play that also helps us out from a
damage standpoint here we'll head up to
the next floor and I'll just let you
know straight up it's looking like it's
gonna be a little bit of a shorter
episode today but that's okay cuz I
think we got that George Lucas reference
in there and that you know is worth like
two and a half of an ounce normal
references due to relative cleverness
and also accessibility always helps when
the reference comes to mind and it's
something that's more Universal it's
like oh that's like the character ral
julia played in the made-for-tv movie
from 1987 overdrawn at the memory bank
that one those ones are not impressing
anybody they're just frightening people
and make you think your brains
constructed like John Travolta's in the
1995 movie phenomenon decent film I
don't know I haven't seen them since I
was seven but phenomenon doo-doo-doo-doo
phenomenon Siskel and Ebert who gave it
one thumbs up one thumbs down in 1995
phenomena starring Travolta phenomenon
Erik leptin soundcheck phenomena
I don't know I got six bombs I'm not
fighting you
we got the damage I know we could kill
you what's the point though as long as
we're going in the right direction here
we should have essentially no trouble
whatsoever remember you probably I mean
it's up to you and by you I mean me but
we probably do not wish to use book of
Belial here might just be smarter to
hold off and enjoy having the extra all
stats particularly speed and maybe rate
of fire for a reduced charge time but
every room I'm getting eager here cuz
I'm looking at it and I'm running the
arithmetic in my head and I'm realizing
we can't be too far away from being done
with this let's ensure as much as we can
that we got this win
we got one spirit heart for a few bombs
that's okay alright and in a way I
almost feel the need to apologize for
well let's not get ahead of ourselves
almost feel the need to apologize
because it looks like this episode is
gonna be a little bit on the shorter
side and combined with that there's
absent a little bit of the NL Zayn and
trickery but at the same time we find
ourselves completing one of the more
annoying challenges in the game also one
of the more transformative I actually
like this challenge quite a lot as
compared to something like speed which
is basically just like ah just go for it
this one I'm like it forces you to
change your playstyle and be more
considered which is something that I
appreciate in spite of the fact that it
got me pretty good as well
terrible Isaac fight aside here we're
about to come through in the clutch
with an easy win that belongs to me Wow
what are we unlocked for owning streak
kidney stone oh good another item that I
used to like but is terrible in my
opinion now because of the fact that it
needlessly reduces your speed in a game
where that is like the kiss of death but
hey thanks for watching hope you guys
enjoy the episode we'll be back with the
ultra hard challenge next if you enjoyed
it click the like button upside a great
deal of course subscribe you wanna see
more in the future but for now thanks
for watching and I will see you next
time